# PUNER-Notebooks

# PUNER-Parsi ULMFiT for Named-Entity Recognition in Persian Texts 
# Abstract
Named Entity Recognition (NER) is an information extraction technique for the automatic recognition of named entities and their classification in a natural lan-guage text. Applications of NER include extracting named entities from texts such as academic, news and medical documents, content classification for news providers, improving the search algorithms, etc. Most of the NER research works explored is for high resource languages such as English, German, and Spanish. Very less NER related work is done in low-resource languages such as Persian, Indian, and Vietnamese due to lack of annotated corpora for these languages. Among the mentioned languages very few works have been reported for the Per-sian language NER till now. Hence, this paper presents PUNER – a Persian NER system using Transfer Learning (TL) model that makes use of Universal Lan-guage Model Fine-tuning (UMLFiT) for NER in Persian language. This is ac-complished by training a Language Model on Persian wiki text and using that model to develop a system for identifying and extracting named entities from the given Persian texts. Performance of the proposed model is compared with the Deep Learning (DL) models using BiLSTM by applying five word embedding models namely, Fasttext, HPCA, Skipgram, Glove, and COBOW and conven-tional Machine Learning (ML) model. All the models are evaluated on two Per-sian NER datasets and the results illustrate that TL model performs better than ML and DL models.
